Good to see you again.
In some applications
of language models,
you will encounter words that you
did not see during training.
In this video, I will teach
you what to do in such cases.
First, I'll explain what
unknown words mean
in this context,
otherwise known as out
of vocabulary words.
Then, you'll add a
new special word,
UNK to your probability
calculations
from the training corpus.
I will also share a few
techniques to help you choose
which words are considered
known by building a vocabulary.
What's our out of
vocabulary words?
First, a vocabulary is a set of
unique words supported
by a language model.
In some tasks like
speech recognition or
question answering,
you will encounter and generate
only words from a
fixed sets of words.
For example, a chatbot
can only answer in limited
sets of questions.
This fixed list of words is
also called closed vocabulary.
However, using a fixed set of
words is not always
sufficient for the task.
Often, you have to deal
with words you haven't
seen before which results
in an open vocabulary.
Open vocabulary simply
means that you may
encounter words from
outside the vocabulary,
like a name of a new city
in the training sets.
The unknown words are
also called out of
vocabulary words
or OOV for short.
One way to deal with
the unknown words is to
model them by a special word UNK.
To do this, you simply replace
every unknown word with UNK.
Here, you will process
your training corpus to
generalize it for unknown words.
First, define which words
belong to the vocabulary.
Any the word in the training
corpus that's not in
the vocabulary will
be replaced with UNK.
Now, you can apply
the engram language model
probability calculations
in the same way as before,
just with the addition of UNK.
Here's an example of
how you can create
the vocabulary and replace
rare words with UNK.
This is your input
training corpus
where you've decided that
a vocabulary and vocabulary needs
to appear in your
corpus at least twice.
In other words, the minimum
frequency of the word is two.
This is your updated
corpus after replacing
all words with frequency
smaller than two with UNK.
Vocabulary is then
a set of words with
frequency greater
than or equal to 2.
When using the language
model on an input query,
any words in the query
that are outside
the vocabulary are also
replaced with UNK.
So as you see here,
the probability
calculation is applied to
the input query with UNK
replacing the outer
vocabulary word, Adam.
Later in this specialization,
I will show you
some other methods
to deal with unknown words.
For example, you
could spell them out
character by character
using deep learning,
all in good time.
Let's talk about how to decide on
the words you want
included in vocabulary
V. You can create
the vocabulary from
the training corpus based
on different criteria.
For example, you could choose
the minimum word frequency f
that is usually a small number.
The words that occur
more than f times in
the corpus will become
part of the vocabulary V,
then replace all other word's
not in the vocabulary with UNK.
This is a simple heuristic.
But it guarantees that
the words you care about,
the ones that repeats a lot,
are parts of the vocabulary.
Alternatively, you can decide
what the maximum size
of your vocabulary
is and only include words with
the highest frequency up to
the maximum vocabulary size.
One thing to consider is
the influence of UNKs
on the perplexity.
Is it going to make
it lower or higher?
Actually, it's usually lower.
So it will look like
your language model is
getting better and better.
But watch out. You might
just have a lot of UNKs.
The model would then generate
a sequence of UNK quotes with
high probability instead
of meaningful sentences.
Due to this limitation,
I would recommend
using UNKs sparingly.
Finally, when using
the perplexity metric,
remember to only compare
language models that have
the same vocabulary.
Now you know how to deal
with auto vocabulary words.
Next, I will show you a method to
improve performance
on rare words.